Controls and compliance checklist


Controls assessment checklist

  Yes
    No
Control




Least Privilege




Disaster recovery plans




Password policies




Separation of duties




Firewall




Intrusion detection system (IDS)




Backups




Antivirus software




Manual monitoring, maintenance, and intervention for legacy systems




Encryption




Password management system




Locks (offices, storefront, warehouse)




Closed-circuit television (CCTV) surveillance




Fire detection/prevention (fire alarm, sprinkler system, etc.)







Compliance checklist

Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
Yes
    No
Best practice




Only authorized users have access to customers’ credit card information. 




Credit card information is stored, accepted, processed, and transmitted internally, in a secure environment.




Implement data encryption procedures to better secure credit card transaction touchpoints and data. 




Adopt secure password management policies.



General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Yes
    No
Best practice




E.U. customers’ data is kept private/secured.




There is a plan in place to notify E.U. customers within 72 hours if their data is compromised/there is a breach.




Ensure data is properly classified and inventoried.




Enforce privacy policies, procedures, and processes to properly document and maintain data.



System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2) 
Yes
    No
Best practice




User access policies are established.




Sensitive data (PII/SPII) is confidential/private.




Data integrity ensures the data is consistent, complete, accurate, and has been validated.




Data is available to individuals authorized to access it.



This section is optional and can be used to provide a summary of recommendations to the IT manager regarding which controls and/or compliance best practices Botium Toys needs to implement, based on the risk posed if not implemented in a timely manner.
Recommendations : Based on the assessment results, physical locations such as main office, warehouse, store front of the Botium Toys have solid physical security controls. However, in terms of technical and administrative controls, it lags far behind industry standards and needs to be aligned with compliance in order to keep its reputation and expand the business online.
Legacy systems and manual monitoring, disaster recovery plans, least privilage access, password policies, backups and encryptions need to be implemented and security controls should be integrated for a better security posture and defense against threats to the organization. When serving worldwide customers online, IT team should upgrade the infrastructure to follow EU data protection GDPR and payment security PCI DSS to reach out for more customers.
